image:https://travis-ci.org/mhinz/vim-startify.svg?branch=travis["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/mhinz/vim-startify"]

image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mhinz/vim-startify/102aa438b2d2a88e2b4e331d8ff5320eed52f0c4/startify.png[Startify in action!]

That's it. A fancy start screen for Vim.  _(almost all visible features enabled - freely customizable)_

---

* <<what-does-it-provide,What does it provide?>>
  . <<it-shows-things-on-start,List files and directories>>
  . <<powerful-menu-handling,Powerful menu entry handling>>
  . <<easy-session-handling,Easy session handling>>
* <<installation-and-documentation,Installation & Documentation>>
* <<author-and-feedback,Author and Feedback>>
* <<license,License>>

---

== What does it provide?

It does 3 things that will be explained in detail further below:

=== It shows things on start!

If you start Vim without giving any filenames or piping text to it, Startify
will show a pretty start screen that shows a configurable list of files or
directories:

- *Custom header*: How about some ASCII art action?
  Perhaps even dynamically generated?
  * _Default:_ `<empty>`

- *Recently used files from directory*: List recently modified files
  from the current directory recursively. The list can also be filtered.
  * _Default:_ `<enabled>`

- *Recently used files*: List recently used files. The
  list can also be filtered.
  * _Default:_ `<enabled>`

- *Sessions*: List all your sessions from a certain
  directory.
  * _Default:_ `~/.vim/session`

- *Bookmarks*: Define bookmarks, thus entries for files that will always be
  listed.
  * _Default:_ `<empty>`

- *Custom footer*: Same as the custom header.. but at the
  bottom.
  * _Default:_ `<empty>`

TIP: See `:h startify-options` for more information.

==== Powerful menu handling

You can either navigate the menu by using the usual suspects (`j`, `G`, `}`
etc.) and hit `<cr>` or just key in whatever is written between the square
brackets on that line. You can even double-click anywhere on the line.

Moreover, you can open several files at one go! Navigate to an entry and hit
either `b` (open in same window), `s` (open in split), `v` (open in vertical
split) or `t` (open in tab) for marking it. You can mark several entries and
also mix different markers. Afterwards execute all the markers in the order
they were given via `<cr>`.

In case you don't want to open a file, there is also `e` for creating an empty
buffer, `i` for creating an empty buffer and jumping into insert mode and `q`
for quitting.

When one or more files were opened by Startify, it will close automatically.
You can always reopen the screen via `:Startify`.

==== Easy session handling

TIP: Please read and understand `:help 'sessionoptions'` if you work with
sessions.

Essentially there are two supported workflows for handling sessions that will
be shown here:

*The Startify way:*

The handling of loading, saving and deleting sessions is eased by always
working with one and the same directory. These commands are used for
convenience:

    :SLoad    load a session
    :SSave    save a session
    :SDelete  delete a session

TIP: See `:h startify-commands` for more information.

The advantage of always using the same directory is that Startify can
conveniently show you a list of all your sessions.

*The old way:*

The old way means using `:mksession` to save a `Session.vim` file to the
current directory. Imagine a project folder with a Session.vim at its root
directory. This way makes it very portable.

When Vim gets started and the file Session.vim is found in the current
directory, it will be shown at the top of all lists as entry `[0]` as a
shortcut.

If you bookmark a directory (project folder, anyone?) that contains a
Session.vim, and you access that directory via Startify, that session will be
loaded automatically.

*Optionally:*

There is even support for *persistent sessions*. Thus you load a session via
Startify, add some buffers, remove some buffers, change the window layout, ..
and when you finish and exit Vim, the session will be saved automatically. This
works for both ways of handling sessions.

TIP: Read `:help startify-options` to learn more about how to configure session
handling to your liking.

My own configuration can be found
https://github.com/mhinz/dotfiles/blob/7e1989e902e5d9d25af5e15c2064f47a33e9d86b/vim/vimrc#L612-L642[here].

== Installation and Documentation

Use your favorite plugin manager.

Using https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug[vim-plug]:

    Plug 'mhinz/vim-startify'

It works without any configuration, but you might want to look into the
documentation for further customization:

    :h startify
    :h startify-faq

=== Temporary disable plugin

If you want to temporary disable startify ( --cmd is executed before processing .vimrc )

    vim --cmd 'let g:startify_disable_at_vimenter = 1' +VimwikiMakeDiaryNote


== Author and Feedback

If you like my plugins, please star them on Github. It's a great way of getting
feedback. Same goes for issues reports or feature requests.

*Names:* Marco Hinz, mhinz, mhi^, mhi

*Mail:* `<mh.codebro@gmail.com>`

*Twitter:* https://twitter.com/\_mhinz_[@\_mhinz_]

*Stackoverflow:* http://stackoverflow.com/users/1606959/mhinz[mhinz]

_Thank you for flying mhi airlines. Get your Vim on!_

== License

MIT license. Copyright (c) 2015 Marco Hinz.
